### The finance report you created provides detailed information but lacks an overview of the company’s overall performance, making it challenging for top managers to make critical business decisions.

The Top Management team at Greenweez needs a combination of financial data and high-level product information to assess the company’s health.

You will collaborate with the marketing team, responsible for creating commercial campaigns to drive website traffic, increase conversion rates, and spur business growth. Coupons and discounts are some of their strategies.

In this exercise, you will utilize multiple data sources:

- Tables (imported from the previous challenge):
  - orders
  - refund
  - shipping
  - campaign

- A sales sheet:
  - includes a list of products sold during the weekend of October 2nd, 2021, featuring the campaign name (promo_name), price before and after discounts, and an optional discount code (code) used for reduced shipping fees during payment.

- A product sheet:
  - with the purchase price (pp_cat) and associated category for each product.

---

### I- Defining the Key Performance Indicators (KPIs)

As the CEO of Greenweez, identify the most important financial metrics that would be of interest to you.

**Hint**

---

### II- Data import

Return to your Google Sheets analysis file and import data from the two sheets in gwz_perf using IMPORTRANGE.

---

### III- Translating Business Needs into Data Specifications

Review the available data in the two new tabs and determine which columns can be used to build the selected KPIs.

Duplicate the “Department page template” tab, rename the duplicated page as Top Management page, and list the chosen KPIs for the Top Management team in the first section.

---

### IV- Data Enrichment

Although you have the price before and after discounts, you still need to calculate the discount percentage. Create this new column and call it promo_percent. This indicator will help analyze the sales volume by discount level further down our analysis.

**Hint**

To assess the impact of campaigns on the margin, identify the necessary column to add to the sales tab and include it. Then, create columns for margin and margin%.

Additionally, you want to analyze discounts by category_1 and category_2, so add these columns to the sales tab.

---

### V- Sales Distribution Based on Discount Code

In a new tab called category_pivot, use a pivot table to analyze each discount code:

- Number of orders in which it was used
- Percentage of total orders (distribution)
- Total quantity of products
- Total revenue generated by the discount code
- Percentage of total revenue
- Total margin

Outside the pivot table, add another column to calculate the margin_percent.

What do you think?

---

### VI- Other Sales Distributions

In a new tab called sales_pivots, repeat the previous step but instead of analyzing by discount code please use:

- In the first pivot table: campaign name (promo_name)
- In the second pivot table: percentage discount
- In the third pivot table: category_1 and category_2

What do you think?

---

### VII- Summarize the KPIs

Now that you have gathered new insights into the company’s health, return to the KPIs list. Aggregate and copy the most significant elements to the Main Results section of the Top Management page.

Evaluate the main learnings at this stage.
