<div role="tabpanel" class="tab-pane active" id="exercise-instructions">

<div id="exercice-content" class="px-5 py-3">


<h2 id="instructions">🎯&nbsp;Instructions</h2>

<p><strong>The challenge will be considered complete when you submit the URL of the document you have been working on. Make sure that the URL is in share mode and accessible by the teacher.</strong><br>
<strong>If there is no submission option on the exercise, click on the “I’m done” button.</strong></p>

<h2 id="introduction">Introduction</h2>

<p>Data collection doesn’t necessarily involve automatic processes, you can ingest data that has been entered manually by someone and build analyses from that data.</p>

<p>In this challenge, the aim is to see how easily you can create a new data source from a business situation using Google Sheets.</p>

<h3 id="context">Context</h3>

<p>You work for a small online shop that sells eco-labelled clothing and you need to analyze customer order data to check that the average order value isn’t falling too much because of inflation and the fact that you’ve had to increase your prices since the start of the year.</p>

<h2 id="1---define-the-structure-of-the-information-to-be-collected">1 - Define the Structure of the Information to Be Collected</h2>

<ol>
<li>
<p>Your business is based on classic e-commerce logic, in which customers place orders that may include one or more products. What data objects do you think should be recorded for this business?</p>

<details>
<summary>Hint</summary>

<p>A data object, also known as a data entity, refers to a distinct and uniquely identifiable piece of information that represents a real-world entity or concept in the reality of a business.</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary>Solution</summary>
<p>The company works on three main data objects, corresponding to different levels of granularity:</p>
<ul>
<li>customers</li>
<li>orders</li>
<li>products</li>
</ul>
</details>
</li>
<li>
<p>Given that you work with different data objects, how do you want to structure the information?</p>

<details>
<summary>Hint</summary>

<p>You can refer to the difference between a relational database and a business data model, which was covered in the “Advanced SQL” course.</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary>Solution</summary>

<p>You may decide to build a single table to make it easier to handle in Google Sheets: in this case it should be at the lowest granularity, i.e. at product level.
If, on the other hand, you decide to build a table by object, you need to remember to create corresponding keys:</p>
<ul>
<li>referring to the customer id in the orders table</li>
<li>referring to the order id in the products table
As you are only handling a small number of rows at the moment, you can choose both options.</li>
</ul>
</details>
</li>
<li>
<p>Suppose you choose to build one table (and therefore one tab in Google Sheets) per object.</p>

<ul>
<li>
<p>Open a <a href="https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/u/0/" target="_blank">new blank Google Sheets</a></p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Create 3 tabs: one called <code>customers</code>, one called <code>orders</code>, one called <code>products</code></p>
</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li>
<p>Based on the previous challenges you did on ecommerce companies i.e. Greenweez, define which elements you would like to collect about each object to be able to perform analyses.</p>

<p>Write the column names you would collect in each tab of the Google Sheets</p>

<details>
<summary>Solution</summary>

<p><code>Customers</code> data:</p>
<ul>
<li>customer id</li>
<li>customer name
<code>Orders</code> data:</li>
<li>order id</li>
<li>order date</li>
<li>customer id
<code>Products</code> data:</li>
<li>product id</li>
<li>product unit price</li>
<li>quantity purchased</li>
<li>order id</li>
</ul>
</details>

<p>You can now use the solution to question 4 to modify the column names you have defined to make the next part of the challenge easier.</p>
</li>
</ol>

<h2 id="2---input-the-information-in-google-sheets">2 - Input the Information in Google Sheets</h2>

<ol>
<li>
<p>In a real-life scenario, you may have customer information in the invoices generated by each purchase on your online shop. You may need to reproduce the customer’s name and create a corresponding ID in your new database.</p>

<p>In our case, where we need to build up data, you can follow the steps below:</p>

<ul>
<li>
<p>customer name: generate 50 customer names using one or two unique and random letters from A to Z.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>create a column&nbsp;<code>customer id random</code>&nbsp;and fill 50 rows using the RANDBETWEEN() function, which you apply with low and high numbers containing 6 digits</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>in the&nbsp;<code>customer id</code>&nbsp;column, copy and paste VALUES ONLY from one version of the&nbsp;<code>customer id&nbsp;random</code>&nbsp;column.</p>
</li>
</ul>

<p><strong>Why do we need to do this?</strong> Because you want the customer ID to match between the <code>customers</code> and <code>orders</code> tables, and having a formula that randomly generates data each time the document is modified can slow down Google Sheets considerably.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Similarly for orders, you should normally reproduce the information appearing on invoices.</p>

<p>In our case, where we need to build up data, you can follow the steps below:</p>

<ul>
<li>
<p>create an <code>order id random</code> column: use RANDBETWEEN() function with 7 digits and expand the formula over <strong>50 rows</strong></p>
</li>
<li>
<p>copy paste the VALUES ONLY in the <code>order id</code> column</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>create 3 columns: <code>order year</code>, <code>order month</code>, <code>order day</code> and fill them in using the RANDBETWEEN() function</p>
</li>
</ul>

<details>
<summary>Hint</summary>

<ul>
<li>use <code>RANDBETWEEN(2021,2022)</code> for <code>order year</code></li>
<li>use <code>RANDBETWEEN(1,12)</code> for <code>order month</code></li>
<li>use <code>RANDBETWEEN(1,28)</code> for <code>order day</code></li>
</ul>
</details>

<ul>
<li>concatenate these values to build an <code>order date random</code> column</li>
</ul>

<details>
<summary>Hint</summary>

<p>You can use the DATE() function</p>
</details>

<ul>
<li>
<p>copy and paste the VALUES ONLY in the <code>order date</code> column</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>copy and paste the <code>customer id</code> from <code>customers</code> tab twice to fill in the rows</p>
</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li>
<p>As for the price, you should normally reproduce the information on the invoices.</p>

<p>In our case where we need to build up data, you can follow the steps below:</p>

<ul>
<li>
<p>copy and paste the <code>order id</code> from <code>orders</code> tab 3 times to fill in <strong>150 rows</strong></p>
</li>
<li>
<p>create a <code>product id random</code> column: use RANDBETWEEN() function with 8 digits and expand the formula</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>copy and paste the VALUES ONLY in the <code>product id</code> column</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>create a <code>price random</code> column: use RANDBETWEEN() function between 20 and 120</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>copy and paste the VALUES ONLY in the <code>price</code> column</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>create a <code>quantity random</code> column: use RANDBETWEEN() function between 1 and 3</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>copy and paste the VALUES ONLY in the <code>quantity</code> column</p>
</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li>
<p>You’ve built in randomly generated data for customers, orders and products. However, in a real scenario, this is not the purpose of manual data collection. In a real business case, you would receive invoices and need to add them to your spreadsheet. Below are three invoices, please add the information from the invoices to your Google spreadsheets.</p>

<blockquote>
<p>1️⃣ The customer named “aa”, whose ID is 356134, purchased, on October 31st 2021, 3 pairs of socks for 12€ each. The product ID for the socks is 57891324 and the order ID is 6651423.</p>
</blockquote>

<blockquote>
<p>2️⃣ The customer named “bb”, whose ID is 376890, purchased, on March 30th 2022, 1 pair of trousers for 89€. The product ID for the trousers is 18317133 and the order ID is 7659876.</p>
</blockquote>

<blockquote>
<p>3️⃣ The customer named “cc”, whose ID is 344332, purchased, on April 2nd 2022, 2 t-shirts for 35€ each. The product ID for the t-shirt is 15226231 and the order ID is 7789123.</p>
</blockquote>
</li>
</ol>

<h2 id="3---perform-analysis-on-the-newly-collected-data">3 - Perform Analysis on the Newly-collected Data</h2>

<p>You are now ready to carry out an analysis of this newly collected data. The aim is to carry out an analysis to evaluate the total revenue per order and per month, in order to assess the company’s overall performance.</p>

<ol>
<li>
<p>Start by creating a new tab <code>analysis raw data</code> in which you will replicate the <code>products</code> tab and add the <code>order date</code> and the <code>total revenue</code> generated by each product.</p>

<details>
<summary>Hint</summary>

<ul>
<li>you can use the IMPORTRANGE() function to copy and paste data from the <code>products</code> tab</li>
<li>on the right, you can add a column <code>order date</code> using the XLOOKUP() function to match it from the <code>orders</code> tab</li>
<li>on the right, you can calculate the <code>total revenue</code> per product by multiplying the <code>price</code> and <code>quantity</code></li>
</ul>
</details>
</li>
<li>
<p>You can now create a pivot table in which you SUM the <code>revenue</code> per <code>order id</code></p>
</li>
<li>
<p>You end up creating another pivot table in which you COUNT the number of unique <code>order id</code> and you SUM the <code>revenue</code>, while grouping the orders by YEAR-MONTH</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>You calculate the average value of orders by dividing SUM(<code>revenue</code>) by COUNTUNIQUE(<code>order id</code>).</p>

<p>What can you say about the business’s performance?</p>

<p>Congratulations, you’ve completed your manual data collection and can now use the new data to carry out an initial analysis. 🎉</p>
</li>
</ol>

<h2 id="a-look-back-at-the-challenge">A look back at the challenge</h2>

<p>Manual data collection presents a number of risks and challenges:</p>

<ul>
<li>
<p><strong>Human error:</strong> Manual data entry is prone to errors such as typing mistakes, misinterpretations and inaccuracies.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p><strong>Time-consuming:</strong> Manual data collection and reproduction can be very time-consuming, even more so for large datasets, and requires dedicated resources.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p><strong>Inconsistency:</strong> Different people collecting data manually may use different methods or interpretations.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p><strong>Limited scalability:</strong> Manual data collection becomes impractical when data volumes increase or when data needs to be collected frequently.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p><strong>Difficulty in tracking changes:</strong> It can be difficult to track and audit changes made during manual data collection and additional data on previously collected data.</p>
</li>
</ul>

<p>For all these reasons, we tend to find automated ways of collecting data and connecting the various tools together. You will be looking at some of the methods of data collection in the next few lessons.</p>

<p>However, you should be aware that even if data is collected automatically from a tool and loaded into the data warehouse you use for analysis, it may be based on data that was originally entered manually into the source tool.</p>


</div>
</div>